Now that you know about vulnerabilities,
you need to learn about threats that can take advantage of them.
In this session, you'll review ways that vulnerabilities may be exploited by
a threat source that can damage your organization's information,
technology, systems, networks, or even people.
Nist defines a threat as any circumstance or event with
the potential to adversely impact organizational operations,
including their mission, functions,
their image even, or reputation also can
impact organizational assets, individuals, other organizations,
or the nation through an information system via unauthorized access,
destruction, disclosure, modification of information,
or denial of service.
But what does this really mean?
Let's use some examples to explain threats.
We're using the car analogy.
Let's consider threats that can cause damage to you as the driver or your vehicle,
in other words, assets.
One could be seeing nails on the road,
causing a flat tire or rain can cause you to slip on the road,
maybe crash into another driver or something along the side,
and then there's always the threat of a drunk driver.
Now let's look at threats to information technology.
A potential threat is a malicious hacker, You know,
the one trying to breach your data,
gain access to your information technology.
As we learned earlier,
it could also be a disgruntled employee,
that insider threat, who may not be really trying to help your organization.
The last type of threat we shouldn't forget is user error.
Mistakes are as big of a problem as any malicious hacker or insider threat may ever be.
So don't ever discount user error.
There are two terms related to threats you need to know about.
The first is threat source.
This is the person or thing that is likely to cause damage.
For example, drunk drivers are a threat source, went on the road.
Someone using a user ID and a password doesn't belong to them.
As an example, on the cyber realm,
a threat vector is the method or path
a threat source will take to exploit a vulnerability or cause damage.
The Internet is a common threat vector.
Physical access can be another.
In cybersecurity, a threat may try to
exploit or take advantage of a vulnerability in a computer system,
this is basically the attack.
Hackers attack our information systems by exploiting vulnerabilities.
And example of a typical attack is
a malicious hacker who may try to crack a password database.
The malicious hacker is the threat,
and cracking the password is the exploit which
takes advantage of software vulnerabilities that give access
to the password database and then they use
the results to gain unauthorized access into computer systems.
Here the hacker is exploiting multiple vulnerabilities.
First, gaining access to the password database, second,
having the ability to crack it and third,
exploiting the results and using that password.
Remember the hacking lifecycle from earlier?
This is the break it phase.
By the way, malicious hackers, the threat,
follow the same process with just a few modifications.
They start with their target,
they learn about it,
they perform their recon and explore it and try to break it,
meaning exploiting the vulnerabilities and then will
exploit that vulnerability to do damage.
Next, you'll review the website that contains
information on many attack and threat vectors.